---
source_pdf: rp2350-datasheet-10.pdf
repository: llm_database
chapter: Chapter 12. Peripherals
section: 12.10.1. Overview
pages: 1198-1199
type: technical_spec
generated_at: 2026-03-01T12:20:14.494106+00:00
---

# 12.10.1. Overview

12.10.1. Overview

The always-on timer (AON Timer) is the only timer that operates in all power modes. It can be used as a real-time

counter or an interval timer and incorporates an alarm which can be used to trigger a power-up event or an interrupt. It

incorporates a 64-bit counter intended to count 1ms ticks, but the tick generator can be configured to run faster or

slower if required. Note that the AON Timer tick generator is independent of all other tick generators on the chip.

The default tick source is the 32kHz on-chip low-power oscillator (LPOSC), see Section 8.4. The LPOSC frequency is not

precise and may vary with voltage and temperature. When the chip core is powered, the tick source can be switched to

the on-chip crystal oscillator (XOSC) for greater precision. If greater precision is also required when the chip core is

12.10. Always-on timer
1197

RP2350 Datasheet

unpowered, then a 32kHz clock or a 1ms tick can be supplied from an external source. Alternatively, the AON Timer can

be synchronised to an external 1Hz source.

The AON Timer is integrated with the power manager (POWMAN) and shares the POWMAN register block. Writes are

limited to 16 bits because a key (0x5afe) is required in the top 16 bits to prevent erroneous writes from locking up the

chip. Most AON Timer registers can be enabled for write by Non-secure software, unlike other POWMAN registers.

However, the registers used to select an external clock, select an external tick source, and enable power-up on alarm

can only be written by Secure software.
