---
source_pdf: rp2350-datasheet-1.pdf
repository: llm_database
chapter: Chapter 12. Peripherals
section: 12.11. HSTX
pages: 1203-1203
type: technical_spec
generated_at: 2026-02-28T17:22:56.644477+00:00
---

# 12.11. HSTX

For example, suppose 1μsec timer precision is required. The user could supply an external 2-25MHz clock in place of
the LPOSC and program both the LPOSC and XOSC frequency registers in MHz units rather than kHz. The maximum
frequency of the external clock is 29MHz.
12.10.9. List of registers
The AON Timer shares a register address space with the power management subsystems in the always-on domain. The
address space is referred to as POWMAN elsewhere in this document and a complete list of POWMAN registers is provided in
Section 6.4. The registers associated with the AON Timer are:
• SET_TIME_63TO48
• SET_TIME_47TO32
• SET_TIME_31TO16
• SET_TIME_15TO0
• READ_TIME_UPPER
• READ_TIME_LOWER
• ALARM_TIME_63TO48
• ALARM_TIME_47TO32
• ALARM_TIME_31TO16
• ALARM_TIME_15TO0
• TIMER
12.11. HSTX
The high-speed serial transmit (HSTX) streams data from the system clock domain to up to 8 GPIOs at a rate
independent of the system clock. On RP2350, GPIOs 12 through 19 are HSTX-capable. HSTX is output-only.
Async FIFO
8 × 32b
AHB
(HSTX_FIFO)
PIO Outputs
(If clk_hstx is 
clk_sys)
Domain:
clk_sys
Domain:
clk_hstx
APB
(HSTX_CTRL)
Command 
Expander
Output 
Shifter
Clock 
Generator
APB Async 
Bridge
Control 
Registers
Bit Crossbar
w/ Optional 
Inversion
DDR Output 
Registers 
× 8
/16
/32
/8
/1
/8
Figure 126. A 32-bit-
wide asynchronous
FIFO provides high-
bandwidth access
from the system DMA.
The command
expander manipulates
the datastream, and
the output shift
register portions the
32-bit data over
successive HSTX
clock cycles, swizzled
by the bit crossbar.
Outputs are double-
data-rate: two bits per
pin per cycle.
HSTX drives data through GPIOs using DDR output registers to transfer up to two bits per clock cycle per pin. The HSTX
balances all delays to GPIO outputs within 300 picoseconds, minimising common-mode components when using
neighbouring GPIOs as a pseudo-differential driver. This also helps maintain destination setup and hold time when a
clock is driven alongside the output data.
The maximum frequency for the HSTX clock is 150 MHz, the same as the system clock. With DDR output operation, this
RP2350 Datasheet
12.11. HSTX
1202

