---
source_pdf: rp2350-datasheet-1.pdf
repository: llm_database
chapter: Chapter 12. Peripherals
section: 12.8.3. Alarms
pages: 1184-1184
type: technical_spec
generated_at: 2026-02-28T17:22:56.644477+00:00
---

# 12.8.3. Alarms

count system clock cycles rather than a 1 μs tick
12.8.1.2. Other timer resources on RP2350
The system timer provides a global timebase for software. RP2350 has a number of other programmable counter
resources which can provide regular interrupts, or trigger DMA transfers.
• The PWM (Section 12.5) contains 12× 16-bit programmable counters. These counters:
◦run at up to system speed
◦can generate interrupts to either of two system IRQ lines
◦can be continuously reprogrammed via the DMA
◦can trigger DMA transfers to other peripherals
• 12× PIO state machines (Chapter 11) can count 32-bit values at system speed, and generate interrupts.
• The DMA (Section 12.6) has four internal pacing timers which trigger transfers at regular intervals.
• Each Cortex-M33 core (Section 3.7) has a standard 24-bit SysTick timer, counting either the microsecond tick
(Section 8.5) or the system clock.
• SIO has a standard 64-bit RISC-V platform timer (Section 3.1.8). Arm and RISC-V software can use this timer.
• The Power Manager (Chapter 6) incorporates a 64-bit timer (AON Timer) which nominally counts milliseconds (see
Section 12.10). This is the only timer that runs when the chip is in its lowest power state, with all switchable power
domains powered down. It is used to schedule power-ups.
12.8.2. Counter
The timer has a 64-bit counter, but RP2350 only has a 32-bit data bus. This means that the TIME value is accessed
through a pair of registers. These are:
• TIMEHW and TIMELW to write the time
• TIMEHR and TIMELR to read the time
To use these pairs, access the lower register, L, followed by the higher register, H. In the read case, reading the L register
latches the value in the H register to provide an accurate time. To read the raw time without any latching, use TIMERAWH
and TIMERAWL.
CAUTION
Don’t write to the TIMEHW and TIMELW registers to force a new time value if other software may be using the timer. The
SDK uses the time value for timeouts, elapsed time, and more, and expects the value to increase monotonically.
12.8.3. Alarms
The timer has 4 alarms, and outputs a separate interrupt for each alarm. The alarms match on the lower 32 bits of the
64-bit counter, which means they can be fired at a maximum of 232 microseconds into the future. This is equivalent to:
• 232 ÷ 106: ~4295 seconds
• 4295 ÷ 60: ~72 minutes
RP2350 Datasheet
12.8. System timers
1183

