---
source_pdf: rp2350-datasheet-8.pdf
repository: llm_database
chapter: Chapter 11. PIO
section: 11.4.4. IN
pages: 893-894
type: technical_spec
generated_at: 2026-03-01T08:45:43.944040+00:00
---

# 11.4.4. IN

11.4.4. IN

11.4.4.1. Encoding

| Bit | 15 | 14 | 13 | 12 | 11 | 10 | 9 | 8 | 7 | 6 | 5 | 4 | 3 | 2 | 1 | 0 |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| IN | 0 | 1 | 0 |  | Del | ay/side | -set |  |  | Source |  |  | B | it coun | t |  |

11.4. Instruction Set
892

RP2350 Datasheet

11.4.4.2. Operation

Shift Bit count bits from Source into the Input Shift Register (ISR). Shift direction is configured for each state machine by

SHIFTCTRL_IN_SHIFTDIR. Additionally, increase the input shift count by Bit count, saturating at 32.

• Source:

◦000: PINS

◦001: X (scratch register X)

◦010: Y (scratch register Y)

◦011: NULL (all zeroes)

◦100: Reserved

◦101: Reserved

◦110: ISR

◦111: OSR
• Bit count: How many bits to shift into the ISR. 1…32 bits, 32 is encoded as 00000

If automatic push is enabled, IN will also push the ISR contents to the RX FIFO if the push threshold is reached

(SHIFTCTRL_PUSH_THRESH). IN still executes in one cycle, whether an automatic push takes place or not. The state machine

will stall if the RX FIFO is full when an automatic push occurs. An automatic push clears the ISR contents to all-zeroes,

and clears the input shift count. See Section 11.5.4.

IN always uses the least significant Bit count bits of the source data. For example, if PINCTRL_IN_BASE is set to 5, the

instruction IN PINS, 3 will take the values of pins 5, 6 and 7, and shift these into the ISR. First the ISR is shifted to the left

or right to make room for the new input data, then the input data is copied into the gap this leaves. The bit order of the

input data is not dependent on the shift direction.

NULL can be used for shifting the ISR’s contents. For example, UARTs receive the LSB first, so must shift to the right.

After 8 IN PINS, 1 instructions, the input serial data will occupy bits 31…24 of the ISR. An IN NULL, 24 instruction will shift

in 24 zero bits, aligning the input data at ISR bits 7…0. Alternatively, the processor or DMA could perform a byte read

from FIFO address + 3, which would take bits 31…24 of the FIFO contents.

11.4.4.3. Assembler syntax

```c
in <source>, <bit_count>
```

where:

| <source> | One of the sources specified above. |
| --- | --- |
| <bit count> _ | A value (see Section 11.3.2) specifying the number of bits to shift (valid range 1-32). |
