---
source_pdf: rp2350-datasheet-8.pdf
repository: llm_database
chapter: Chapter 11. PIO
section: 11.4.8. MOV (to RX)
pages: 897-898
type: technical_spec
generated_at: 2026-03-01T08:45:43.944040+00:00
---

# 11.4.8. MOV (to RX)

11.4.8. MOV (to RX)

11.4.8.1. Encoding

| Bit | 15 | 14 | 13 | 12 | 11 | 10 | 9 | 8 | 7 | 6 | 5 | 4 | 3 | 2 | 1 | 0 |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| MOV | 1 | 0 | 0 |  | Del | ay/side | -set |  | 0 | 0 | 0 | 1 | IdxI |  | Index |  |

11.4. Instruction Set
896

RP2350 Datasheet

11.4.8.2. Operation

Write the ISR to a selected RX FIFO entry. The state machine can write the RX FIFO entries in any order, indexed either

by the Y register, or an immediate Index in the instruction. Requires the SHIFTCTRL_FJOIN_RX_PUT configuration field to be

set, otherwise its operation is undefined. The FIFO configuration can be specified for the program via the .fifo directive

(see pioasm_fifo).

If IdxI (index by immediate) is set, the RX FIFO’s registers are indexed by the two least-significant bits of the Index

operand. Otherwise, they are indexed by the two least-significant bits of the Y register. When IdxI is clear, all non-zero

values of Index are reserved encodings, and their operation is undefined.

When only SHIFTCTRL_FJOIN_RX_PUT is set (in SM0_SHIFTCTRL through SM3_SHIFTCTRL), the system can also read the RX

FIFO registers with random access via RXF0_PUTGET0 through RXF0_PUTGET3 (where RXFx indicates which state

machine’s FIFO is being accessed). In this state, the FIFO register storage is repurposed as status registers, which the

state machine can update at any time and the system can read at any time. For example, a quadrature decoder program

could maintain the current step count in a status register at all times, rather than pushing to the RX FIFO and potentially

blocking.

When both SHIFTCTRL_FJOIN_RX_PUT and SHIFTCTRL_FJOIN_RX_GET are set, the system can no longer access the RX FIFO

storage registers, but the state machine can now put/get the registers in arbitrary order, allowing them to be used as

additional scratch storage.

NOTE

The RX FIFO storage registers have only a single read port and write port, and access through each port is assigned

to only one of (system, state machine) at any time.

11.4.8.3. Assembler syntax

```c
mov rxfifo[y], isr
mov rxfifo[<index>], isr
```

where:

| y | The literal token "y", indicating the RX FIFO entry is indexed by the Y register. |
| --- | --- |
| <index> | A value (see Section 11.3.2) specifying the RX FIFO entry to write (valid range 0-3). |
