---
source_pdf: rp2350-datasheet-1.pdf
repository: llm_database
chapter: Chapter 11. PIO
section: 11.4.6. PUSH
pages: 895-895
type: technical_spec
generated_at: 2026-02-28T17:22:56.644477+00:00
---

# 11.4.6. PUSH

11.4.5.2. Operation
Shift Bit count bits out of the Output Shift Register (OSR), and write those bits to Destination. Additionally, increase the
output shift count by Bit count, saturating at 32.
• Destination:
◦000: PINS
◦001: X (scratch register X)
◦010: Y (scratch register Y)
◦011: NULL (discard data)
◦100: PINDIRS
◦101: PC
◦110: ISR (also sets ISR shift counter to Bit count)
◦111: EXEC (Execute OSR shift data as instruction)
• Bit count: how many bits to shift out of the OSR. 1…32 bits, 32 is encoded as 00000
A 32-bit value is written to Destination: the lower Bit count bits come from the OSR, and the remainder are zeroes. This
value is the least significant Bit count bits of the OSR if SHIFTCTRL_OUT_SHIFTDIR is to the right, otherwise it is the most
significant bits.
PINS and PINDIRS use the OUT pin mapping, as described in Section 11.5.6.
If automatic pull is enabled, the OSR is automatically refilled from the TX FIFO if the pull threshold, SHIFTCTRL_PULL_THRESH,
is reached. The output shift count is simultaneously cleared to 0. In this case, the OUT will stall if the TX FIFO is empty,
but otherwise still executes in one cycle. The specifics are given in Section 11.5.4.
OUT EXEC allows instructions to be included inline in the FIFO datastream. The OUT itself executes on one cycle, and the
instruction from the OSR is executed on the next cycle. There are no restrictions on the types of instructions which can
be executed by this mechanism. Delay cycles on the initial OUT are ignored, but the executee may insert delay cycles as
normal.
OUT PC behaves as an unconditional jump to an address shifted out from the OSR.
11.4.5.3. Assembler syntax
out <destination>, <bit_count>
where:
<destination>
One of the destinations specified above.
<bit_count>
A value (see Section 11.3.2) specifying the number of bits to shift (valid range 1-32).
11.4.6. PUSH
11.4.6.1. Encoding
Bit
15
14
13
12
11
10
9
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
0
PUSH
1
0
0
Delay/side-set
0
IfF
Blk
0
0
0
0
0
RP2350 Datasheet
11.4. Instruction Set
894

