---
source_pdf: rp2350-datasheet-1.pdf
repository: llm_database
chapter: Chapter 11. PIO
section: 11.4.11. IRQ
pages: 901-901
type: technical_spec
generated_at: 2026-02-28T17:22:56.644477+00:00
---

# 11.4.11. IRQ

<destination>
One of the destinations specified above.
op
If present, is:
! or ~ for NOT (Note: this is always a bitwise NOT)
:: for bit reverse
<source>
One of the sources specified above.
11.4.11. IRQ
11.4.11.1. Encoding
Bit
15
14
13
12
11
10
9
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
0
IRQ
1
1
0
Delay/side-set
0
Clr
Wait
IdxMode
Index
11.4.11.2. Operation
Set or clear the IRQ flag selected by Index argument.
• Clear: if 1, clear the flag selected by Index, instead of raising it. If Clear is set, the Wait bit has no effect.
• Wait: if 1, halt until the raised flag is lowered again, e.g. if a system interrupt handler has acknowledged the flag.
• Index: specifies an IRQ index from 0-7. This IRQ flag will be set/cleared depending on the Clear bit.
• IdxMode: modify the behaviour if the Index field, either modifying the index, or indexing IRQ flags from a different
PIO block:
◦00: the three LSBs are used directly to index the IRQ flags in this PIO block.
◦01 (PREV): the instruction references an IRQ flag from the next-lower-numbered PIO in the system, wrapping to
the highest-numbered PIO if this is PIO0.
◦10 (REL): the state machine ID (0…3) is added to the IRQ flag index, by way of modulo-4 addition on the two
LSBs. For example, state machine 2 with a flag value of '0x11' will wait on flag 3, and a flag value of '0x13' will
wait on flag 1. This allows multiple state machines running the same program to synchronise with each other.
◦11 (NEXT): the instruction references an IRQ flag from the next-higher-numbered PIO in the system, wrapping to
PIO0 if this is the highest-numbered PIO.
All IRQ flags 0-7 can be routed out to system level interrupts, on either of the PIO’s two external interrupt request lines,
configured by IRQ0_INTE and IRQ1_INTE.
The modulo addition mode (REL) allows relative addressing of 'IRQ' and 'WAIT' instructions, for synchronising state
machines which are running the same program. Bit 2 (the third LSB) is unaffected by this addition.
The NEXT/PREV modes can be used to synchronise between state machines in different PIO blocks. If these state
machines' clocks are divided, their clock dividers must be the same, and must have been synchronised by writing
CTRL.NEXTPREV_CLKDIV_RESTART in addition to the relevant NEXT_PIO_MASK/PREV_PIO_MASK bits. Note that the
cross-PIO connection is severed between PIOs with different accessibility to Non-secure code, as per ACCESSCTRL.
If Wait is set, Delay cycles do not begin until after the wait period elapses.
RP2350 Datasheet
11.4. Instruction Set
900

