---
source_pdf: rp2350-datasheet-1.pdf
repository: llm_database
chapter: Chapter 10. Security
section: 10.7. DMA
pages: 868-868
type: technical_spec
generated_at: 2026-02-28T17:22:56.644477+00:00
---

# 10.7. DMA

Bits
Description
Type
Reset
0
NSU: If 1, and NSP is also set, XIP_QMI can be accessed from a Non-secure,
Unprivileged context.
This bit is writable from a Non-secure, Privileged context, if and only if the NSP
bit is set.
RW
0x0
ACCESSCTRL: XIP_AUX Register
Offset: 0xe8
Description
Control whether debugger, DMA, core 0 and core 1 can access XIP_AUX, and at what security/privilege levels they
can do so.
Defaults to Secure, Privileged access only.
This register is writable only from a Secure, Privileged processor or debugger, with the exception of the NSU bit, which
becomes Non-secure-Privileged-writable when the NSP bit is set.
Table 970. XIP_AUX
Register
Bits
Description
Type
Reset
31:8
Reserved.
-
-
7
DBG: If 1, XIP_AUX can be accessed by the debugger, at security/privilege
levels permitted by SP/NSP/SU/NSU in this register.
RW
0x1
6
DMA: If 1, XIP_AUX can be accessed by the DMA, at security/privilege levels
permitted by SP/NSP/SU/NSU in this register.
RW
0x1
5
CORE1: If 1, XIP_AUX can be accessed by core 1, at security/privilege levels
permitted by SP/NSP/SU/NSU in this register.
RW
0x1
4
CORE0: If 1, XIP_AUX can be accessed by core 0, at security/privilege levels
permitted by SP/NSP/SU/NSU in this register.
RW
0x1
3
SP: If 1, XIP_AUX can be accessed from a Secure, Privileged context.
RW
0x1
2
SU: If 1, and SP is also set, XIP_AUX can be accessed from a Secure,
Unprivileged context.
RW
0x0
1
NSP: If 1, XIP_AUX can be accessed from a Non-secure, Privileged context.
RW
0x0
0
NSU: If 1, and NSP is also set, XIP_AUX can be accessed from a Non-secure,
Unprivileged context.
This bit is writable from a Non-secure, Privileged context, if and only if the NSP
bit is set.
RW
0x0
10.7. DMA
The RP2350 system DMA is a peripheral which performs arbitrary reads and writes on memory. This means that, as
with a processor, care is necessary to maintain isolation between memory or peripherals owned by different security
domains. Any given processor context must not access memory or peripherals belonging to a more secure context. The
DMA helps maintain this invariant by ensuring software can not use the DMA to access a more secure context on its
behalf, including such cases as a processor programming the DMA to program the DMA.
RP2350 extends the processor security/privilege states to individual DMA channels, and the DMA filters its own
memory accesses with a built-in memory protection unit (MPU) similarly capable to the Armv8-M SAU or the RISC-V
PMP. When correctly configured, this allows multiple security domains to transparently and safely share DMA
RP2350 Datasheet
10.7. DMA
867

