---
source_pdf: rp2350-datasheet-1.pdf
repository: llm_database
chapter: Chapter 2. System bus
section: 2.2.2. XIP
pages: 31-31
type: technical_spec
generated_at: 2026-02-28T17:22:56.644477+00:00
---

# 2.2.2. XIP

detects the failed exclusive read and bails out to avoid an infinite loop.
It is recommended not to perform exclusive accesses on regions outside of main SRAM. Shared variables outside of
main SRAM can be protected using either lock variables in main SRAM, the SIO spinlocks, or a locking protocol that
does not require exclusive accesses, such as a lock-free queue.
2.1.7. Bus performance counters
Bus performance counters automatically count accesses to the main AHB5 crossbar arbiters. These counters can help
diagnose high-traffic performance issues.
There are four performance counters, starting at PERFCTR0. Each is a 24-bit saturating counter. Counter values can be
read from BUSCTRL_PERFCTRx and cleared by writing any value to BUSCTRL_PERFCTRx. Each counter can count one of the 20
available events at a time, as selected by BUSCTRL_PERFSELx. For more information, see Section 12.15.4.
2.2. Address map
The address map for the device is split into sections as shown in Table 8. Details are shown in the following sections.
Unmapped address ranges raise a bus error when accessed.
Each link in the left-hand column of Table 8 goes to a detailed address map for that address range. The detailed
address maps have a link for each address to the relevant documentation for that address.
Rough address decode is first performed on bits 31:28 of the address:
Table 8. Address Map
Summary
Bus Segment
Base Address
ROM
0x00000000
XIP
0x10000000
SRAM
0x20000000
APB Peripherals
0x40000000
AHB Peripherals
0x50000000
Core-local Peripherals (SIO)
0xd0000000
Cortex-M33 private registers
0xe0000000
2.2.1. ROM
ROM is accessible to DMA, processor load/store, and processor instruction fetch. It is located at address zero, which is
the starting point for both Arm processors when the device is reset.
Table 9. Address map
for ROM bus segment
Bus Endpoint
Base Address
ROM_BASE
0x00000000
2.2.2. XIP
XIP is accessible to DMA, processor load/store, and processor instruction fetch. This address range contains various
mirrors of a 64 MB space which is mapped to external memory devices. On RP2350 the lower 32 MB is occupied by the
QSPI Memory Interface (QMI), and the remainder is reserved. QMI controls are in the APB register section.
RP2350 Datasheet
2.2. Address map
30

