---
source_pdf: rp2350-datasheet-3.pdf
repository: llm_database
chapter: Chapter 3. Processor subsystem
section: 3.1. SIO
pages: 37-37
type: technical_spec
generated_at: 2026-03-01T02:30:35.833805+00:00
---

# 3.1. SIO

RP2350 Datasheet

The Cortex-M33 implementation of the Armv8-M Security extension (also known as TrustZone-M) isolates trusted and

untrusted software running on-device. RP2350 extends the strict partitioning of the Arm Secure and Non-secure states

throughout the system, including the ability to assign peripherals, GPIOs and DMA channels to each security domain.

See Section 10.2 for a high-level overview of Armv8-M Security extension features in the context of the RP2350 security

architecture.

Not shown on Figure 6 are the coprocessors for the Cortex-M33. These are closely coupled to the core, offering a

transfer rate of 64 bits per cycle in and out of the Arm register file. You may consider them to be inside the Cortex-M33

block on the diagram. RP2350 equips each Cortex-M33 with the following coprocessors:

• Coprocessor 0: GPIO coprocessor (GPIOC), described in Section 3.6.1
• Coprocessors 4 and 5: Secure and Non-secure instances of the double-precision coprocessor (DCP), described in

Section 3.6.2
• Coprocessor 7: redundancy coprocessor (RCP), described in Section 3.6.3

An external debug host can access both cores over a Serial Wire Debug (SWD) bus. The host can:

• run, halt and reset the cores
• inspect internal core state such as registers
• access memory from the core’s point of view
• load code onto the device and run it

Section 3.5 describes the debug hardware in addition to the instruction trace hardware available on the Arm processors.

Peripherals throughout the system assert interrupt requests (IRQs) to demand attention from the processors. For

example, a UART peripheral asserts its interrupt when it has received a character, so the processor can collect it from

the receive FIFO. All interrupts route to both cores, and the core’s internal interrupt controller selects the interrupt

signals it wishes to subscribe to. Section 3.2 defines the system-level IRQ numbering as well as details of the Arm non-

maskable interrupt (NMI).

The event signals described in Section 3.3 are a mechanism for processors to sleep when waiting for other processors

in the system to complete a task or free up some resource. Each processor sees events emitted by the other processor.

They also see exclusivity events generated by the Global Exclusive Monitor described in Section 2.1.6, which is the piece

of hardware that allows the processors to safely manipulate shared variables using atomic read-modify-write

sequences.

3.1. SIO

The Single-cycle IO subsystem (SIO) contains peripherals that require low-latency, deterministic access from the

processors. It is accessed via the AHB Fabric. The SIO has a dedicated bus interface for each processor, as shown in

Figure 7.

3.1. SIO
36
