---
source_pdf: rp2350-datasheet-6.pdf
repository: llm_database
chapter: Chapter 5. Bootrom
section: 5.5.1. The RP2350 drive
pages: 400-401
type: technical_spec
generated_at: 2026-03-01T05:39:21.783275+00:00
---

# 5.5.1. The RP2350 drive

5.5.1. The RP2350 drive

RP2350 appears as a standard 128MB flash drive named RP2350 formatted as a single partition with FAT16. There are

only ever two actual files visible on the drive specified.

5.5. USB mass storage interface
399

RP2350 Datasheet

• INFO_UF2.TXT contains a string description of the UF2 bootloader and version.
• INDEX.HTM redirects to information about the RP2350 device.

The default INDEX.HTM for RP2350 A2 is https://raspberrypi.com/device/RP2?version=5A09D5312E22. The version

parameter is changed for other RP2350 revisions; the first 6 characters are from the git hash of the chip, and the next 6

characters are from the git hash of the bootrom. The contents of these files and the name of the drive may be

customised. For more information, see Section 5.7.

Any type of files may be written to the USB drive from the host; however, in general these aren’t stored, and only appear

to be so because of caching on the host side.

When a suitable UF2 file is written to the device, the special contents are recognised and data is written to specified

locations in RAM or flash.

Where flash-targeted UF2s are written on RP2350 is determined by the family id of the UF2 contents and the partition

table.

If there’s no partition table, then UF2s are stored at the address they specify; otherwise they (with the exception of the

special ABSOLUTE family id) are stored into a single partition, with UF2 flash address 0x10000000 mapping to the start of

the partition.

It’s possible, based on the partition table or family id, that the UF2 isn’t downloadable anywhere in flash, in which case,

it’s ignored. Further detail can be discovered via GET_INFO - UF2_STATUS. On the completed download of an entire

valid UF2 file, RP2350 automatically reboots to run the newly downloaded code.

Invalid UF2 files might not write at all or only write partially to RP2350 before failing. Not all operating systems notify

you of disk write errors after a failed write. You can use picotool verify to verify that a UF2 file wrote correctly to

RP2350.
