---
source_pdf: rp2350-datasheet-1.pdf
repository: llm_database
chapter: Appendix E: Errata
section: RP2350-E12
pages: 1376-1377
type: technical_spec
generated_at: 2026-02-28T17:22:56.644477+00:00
---

# RP2350-E12

Workaround
To avoid spurious cache hits, choose an address that can’t alias with cached data from the QMI. This
remaps dirty lines outside of the QMI address space after cleaning them, which has the side effect of
causing a cache miss on the next access to the dirty address. The SDK xip_cache_clean_all() function
implements this workaround.
The updated tag is predictable: it is always the address of the maintenance write. For example, use the
upper 16 kB of the maintenance space to clean all cache lines:
1 volatile uint8_t *maintenance_ptr = (volatile uint8_t*)0x1bffc001u;
2 for (int i = 0; i < 0x4000; i += 8) {
3     maintenance_ptr[i] = 0;
4 }
Because the clean operation is a no-op for invalid, clean or pinned lines, this workaround doesn’t interfere
with lines pinned for cache-as-SRAM use.
Fixed by
Documentation, Software
USB
RP2350-E12
Reference
RP2350-E12
Summary
Inadequate synchronisation of USB status signals
Affects
RP2350 A2, RP2350 A3, RP2350 A4 (mitigated on A3)
RP2350 Datasheet
USB
1375


Description
Within the USB peripheral, certain Host and Device controller events cross from clk_usb to clk_sys. Many
of these signals don’t have appropriate synchronisation methods to ensure that they are correctly
registered when clk_sys is equal to or slower than clk_usb.
The following signals lack appropriate synchronisation methods:
SIE_STATUS:
• TRANS_COMPLETE
• SETUP_REC
• STALL_REC
• NAK_REC
• RX_SHORT_PACKET
• ACK_REQ
• DATA_SEQ_ERROR
• RX_OVERFLOW
INTR:
• HOST_SOF
• ERROR_CRC
• ERROR_BIT_STUFF
• ERROR_RX_OVERFLOW
• ERROR_RX_TIMEOUT
• ERROR_DATA_SEQ
The bootrom’s USB bootloader derives clk_sys from pll_usb. Therefore, the two clock frequencies are
identical and have a fixed phase relationship. Under this condition, and at extremes of PVT, lab testing
has shown that these events can be lost, which results in unreliable USB bootloader behaviour.
RP2350 A3 incorporates hardware fixes that improve timing margins on signals critical to the bootrom,
ensuring reliable operation across PVT. However, software must not rely on these fixes, and so they
aren’t elaborated on.
Workaround
Run clk_sys faster than clk_usb by at least 10% when the peripheral is in use. Signalling of quasi-static bus
states such as reset, suspend, and resume aren’t affected by this erratum, so clk_sys can be lower in
these cases.
Fixed by
Documentation, Software
RP2350 Datasheet
USB
1376

