---
source_pdf: rp2350-datasheet-1.pdf
repository: llm_database
chapter: Appendix E: Errata
section: RP2350-E10
pages: 1358-1358
type: technical_spec
generated_at: 2026-02-28T17:22:56.644477+00:00
---

# RP2350-E10

Appendix E: Errata
Alphabetical by section.
ACCESSCTRL
RP2350-E3
Reference
RP2350-E3
Summary
In QFN-60 package, GPIO_NSMASK controls wrong PADS registers
Affects
RP2350 A2, QFN-60 package only
Description
RP2350 remaps IOs, their control registers and their ADC channels so that both package sizes appear to
have consecutively numbered GPIOs, even though for physical design reasons the QFN-60 package
bonds out a sparse selection of IO pads.
The connection between the GPIO_NSMASK0/GPIO_NSMASK1 registers and the PADS registers doesn’t
take this remapping into account. Consequently, in the QFN-60 package only, the GPIO_NSMASK0 register bits
are applied to registers for the wrong pads. Specifically, PADS_BANK0 registers 29 through 0 are controlled
by the concatenation of GPIO_NSMASK bits 47 through 44, 39 through 33, 30 through 28, 24 through 17 and
15 through 8 (all inclusive ranges).
This means that granting Non-secure access to the PADS registers in the QFN-60 package doesn’t allow
Non-secure software to control the correct pads. It may also allow Non-secure control of pads that aren’t
granted in GPIO_NSMASK0.
The QSPI PADS registers (Bank 1) aren’t affected because these aren’t remapped for different packages.
Workaround
Disable Non-secure access to the PADS registers by clearing PADS_BANK0.NSP, NSU.
Implement a Secure Gateway (Arm) or ecall handler (RISC-V) to permit Non-Secure/U-mode code to
read/write its assigned PADS_BANK0 registers.
Fixed by
RP2350 A3, Documentation, Software
Bootrom
RP2350-E10
Reference
RP2350-E10
Summary
UF2 drag-and-drop doesn’t work with partition tables
Affects
RP2350 A2
Description
When dragging and dropping a UF2 onto the USB Mass Storage Device, the bootrom on chip revision A2
doesn’t set up the flash before checking the partition table. This causes the UF2 download to fail if there
is a partition table present.
RP2350 Datasheet
ACCESSCTRL
1357

