---
source_pdf: rp2350-datasheet-1.pdf
repository: llm_database
chapter: Appendix E: Errata
section: RP2350-E11
pages: 1375-1375
type: technical_spec
generated_at: 2026-02-28T17:22:56.644477+00:00
---

# RP2350-E11

Workaround
Use processor atomic instructions instead of the SIO spinlocks. The SDK hardware_sync_spin_lock library
uses software lock variables by default when building for RP2350, instead of hardware spinlocks.
The following SIO spinlocks can be used normally because they don’t alias with writable registers: 5, 6, 7,
10, 11, and 18 through 31. Some of the other lock addresses may be used safely depending on which of
the high-addressed SIO registers are in use.
Locks 18 through 24 alias with some read-only TMDS encoder registers, which is safe as only writes are
mis-decoded.
Fixed by
Documentation, Software
XIP
RP2350-E11
Reference
RP2350-E11
Summary
XIP cache clean by set/way operation modifies the tag of dirty lines
Affects
RP2350 A2, RP2350 A3, RP2350 A4
Description
The 0x1 clean by set/way cache maintenance operation performs the following steps:
1. Selects a cache line: address bits 12:3 index the cache sets, and bit 13 selects from the two 8-byte
cache lines, which make up the ways of each set.
2. Checks if the line contains uncommitted write data (a dirty line).
3. If the line is dirty, writes the data downstream and marks the line as clean.
In the third step, in addition to marking the line as clean, the cache controller erroneously sets the cache
line’s tag to address bits 25:13 of the maintenance write that initiated the clean operation. The cache uses
the tag to recall which of the many possible downstream addresses currently resides in each cache line.
Therefore reading the newly tagged address returns cached data from the original address, breaking the
memory contract.
Consider the following example scenario:
• QMI window 0 (starting at 0x10000000) has a flash device attached
• QMI window 1 (starting at 0x11000000) has a PSRAM device attached
• The cache possesses address 0x11000000 in the dirty state, and it is allocated in way 0 of the cache
The programmer cleans the cache, starting by writing to address 0x18000001 to clean set 0, way 0. This
cleans the dirty line containing address 0x11000000. After cleaning, the cache updates this line’s tag to all-
zeroes (the offset of the maintenance write). A subsequent read from 0x10000000 results in a spurious
cache hit, returning PSRAM data in place of flash data.
See Section 4.4.1.1 for more information about cache maintenance operations. See Section 4.4.1.2 for
more information about cache line states and state transitions.
The tag update only affects 0x1 clean by set/way; is either correct or harmless for the other four cache
maintenance operations.
RP2350 Datasheet
XIP
1374

