---
source_pdf: rp2350-datasheet-1.pdf
repository: llm_database
chapter: Appendix E: Errata
section: RP2350-E27
pages: 1364-1364
type: technical_spec
generated_at: 2026-02-28T17:22:56.644477+00:00
---

# RP2350-E27

Description
An attacker with physical access to the chip, and the ability to switch the contents of "flash" as read by
the RP2350 over QSPI during boot at precise times, could, combined with a precisely-timed physical
"glitch" attack of the CPU, trick the bootrom into checking the signature of data other than the program
binary as loaded into memory during secure boot.
If this "other" data passes the signature check, then the attacker’s binary is executed without itself having
passed a signature check, which allows the user to run arbitrary unsigned code on the RP2350.
Credit
Kévin Courdesses (see https://courk.cc/rp2350-challenge-laser#flash-memory-organization)
Workaround
None
Fixed by
RP2350 A4 bootrom
RP2350-E25
Reference
RP2350-E25
Summary
A LOAD_MAP that uses non-word sizes doesn’t cause an error.
Affects
RP2350 A2, RP2350 A3
Description
Non-word sizes in a LOAD_MAP aren’t supported and were documented as such. However, they don’t
currently cause an error. Whilst non-word sizes might currently work in some certain cases, you should
never use them because they might not work as you expect in all cases and can be properly treated as an
error in the future.
The SDK and picotool don’t generate such LOAD_MAPs with non-word sized entries.
Workaround
Don’t use non-word (not multiple of 4) sizes in a LOAD_MAP. A best practice is to make sure that linker
memory segments are both word-sized and word-aligned.
As of the RP2350 A4 bootrom, non-word sizes are detected when checking the LOAD_MAP and cause the
IMAGE_DEF to be considered invalid if present.
Fixed by
RP2350 A4 bootrom, Documentation
Bus Fabric
RP2350-E27
Reference
RP2350-E27
Summary
Bus priority controls apply to wrong managers for APB and FASTPERI arbiters.
Affects
RP2350 A2, RP2350 A3, RP2350 A4
RP2350 Datasheet
Bus Fabric
1363

