---
source_pdf: rp2350-datasheet-1.pdf
repository: llm_database
chapter: Appendix E: Errata
section: RP2350-E2
pages: 1374-1374
type: technical_spec
generated_at: 2026-02-28T17:22:56.644477+00:00
---

# RP2350-E2

Fixed by
Documentation, Software
SIO
RP2350-E1
Reference
RP2350-E1
Summary
Interpolator OVERF bits are broken by new right-rotate behaviour
Affects
RP2350 A2, RP2350 A3, RP2350 A4
Description
RP2350 replaces the interpolator right-shift with a right-rotate, so that left shifts can be synthesised. This
is useful for scaled indexed addressing in tight address-generating loops.
The OVERF flag functions by checking for nonzero bits in the post-shift value that have been masked out by
the MSB mask configured by the CTRL_LANE0_MASK_MSB and CTRL_LANE1_MASK_MSB register fields. This is used to
discard samples outside of the [0, 1) wrapping domain of UV coordinates represented by ACCUM0 and
ACCUM1, for example in affine-transformed sprite sampling.
The issue occurs because the right-rotate causes nonzero LSBs to be rotated up to the MSBs. These
nonzero bits spuriously set the OVERF flag.
Workaround
Either compute OVERF manually by checking the ACCUM0/ACCUM1 MSBs, or precompute the bounds in advance
to avoid per-sample checks.
Fixed by
Documentation
RP2350-E2
Reference
RP2350-E2
Summary
SIO SPINLOCK writes are mirrored at +0x80 offset
Affects
RP2350 A2, RP2350 A3, RP2350 A4
Description
The SIO contains spinlock registers, SPINLOCK0 through SPINLOCK31. Reading a spinlock register
attempts to claim it, returning nonzero if the claim was successful and 0 if unsuccessful. Writing to a
spinlock register releases it, so the next claim will be successful. SIO spinlock registers are at register
offsets 0x100 through 0x17c within SIO.
RP2350 adds new SIO registers at register offsets 0x180 and above: Doorbells, the PERI_NONSEC register,
the RISC-V soft IRQ register, the RISC-V MTIME registers, and the TMDS encoder.
The SIO address decoder detects writes to spinlocks by decoding on bit 8 of the address. This means
writes in the range 0x180 through 0x1fc are spuriously detected as writes to the corresponding spinlock
address 128 bytes below, in the range 0x100 through 0x17c. Writing to any of these high registers will set
the corresponding lock to the unclaimed state.
This erratum only affects writes to the spinlock registers. Reads are correctly decoded, so aren’t affected
by accesses above 0x17c.
RP2350 Datasheet
SIO
1373

