---
source_pdf: rp2350-datasheet-1.pdf
repository: llm_database
chapter: Appendix E: Errata
section: RP2350-E18
pages: 1360-1360
type: technical_spec
generated_at: 2026-02-28T17:22:56.644477+00:00
---

# RP2350-E18

Description
When using the bootrom function connect_internal_flash() to configure CS1 (for instance, during a flash
boot), the bootrom always configures the pad registers for pin 0, ignoring any CS1 pin specified in
FLASH_DEVINFO.
As a result, the specified CS1 pin remains isolated (see Section 9.7). Accesses to the QSPI device
connected to the second chip select fails unless CS1 is connected to pin 0.
FLASH_DEVINFO can be configured in OTP or at runtime. For more information, see flash_devinfo16_ptr.
Workaround
Manually configure the CS1 pads registers to remove the isolation after using the bootrom
connect_internal_flash() function. Alternatively, connect CS1 to pin 0.
Fixed by
RP2350 A3 bootrom, Documentation, Software
RP2350-E15
Reference
RP2350-E15
Summary
The bootrom otp_access() function applies incorrect access permission to pages 62 & 63
Affects
RP2350 A2
Description
The bootrom otp_access() function incorrectly applies the access permissions specified in OTP rows
PAGE62_LOCK1 and PAGE63_LOCK1 to the entirety of their respective OTP pages (62 and 63). This is
incorrect, as pages 62 and 63 contain lock words for other pages: each lock word is instead protected by
the permissions of the corresponding page.
The ATE programming then locks down write access from non-Secure software and the bootloader to the
page 63 lock word (to prevent non-Secure setting of the RMA flag), and write access from non-Secure
software to the page 62 lock word. This prevents non-Secure software from modifying any of the OTP
page locks, and the bootloader from modifying the locks for pages 32-63.
Workaround
When running code on the device, don’t use the non-Secure otp_access() function to set locks for OTP
pages. To set OTP page locks from non-Secure code, implement your own Secure API to do this that can
be called from non-Secure code.
Page locks for OTP pages 32-63 can be set by picotool using the picotool otp permissions command. This
command loads a Secure binary into XIP SRAM on the device to change the permissions before
rebooting back into the USB bootloader.
Fixed by
RP2350 A3 bootrom, Documentation, Software
RP2350-E18
Reference
RP2350-E18
Summary
The RP2350 will forever fail to boot if FLASH_PARTITION_SLOT_SIZE contains an invalid ECC bit pattern
Affects
RP2350 A2, RP2350 A3
RP2350 Datasheet
Bootrom
1359

