---
source_pdf: rp2350-datasheet-2.pdf
repository: llm_database
chapter: Chapter 12. Peripherals
section: 12.2.2. IP configuration
pages: 985-985
type: technical_spec
generated_at: 2026-02-28T17:43:10.557178+00:00
---

# 12.2.2. IP configuration

RP2350 Datasheet

12.2.1. Features

Each I2C controller is based on a configuration of the Synopsys DW_apb_i2c (v2.03a) IP. The following features are

supported:

• Master or Slave (Default to Master mode)
• Standard mode, Fast mode or Fast mode plus
• Default slave address 0x055
• Supports 10-bit addressing in Master mode
• 16-element transmit buffer
• 16-element receive buffer
• Can be driven from DMA
• Can generate interrupts

12.2.1.1. Standard

The I2C controller was designed for I2C Bus specification, version 6.0, dated April 2014.

12.2.1.2. Clocking

All clocks in the I2C controller are connected to clk_sys, including ic_clk, which is mentioned in later sections. The I2C

clock is generated by dividing down this clock, controlled by registers inside the block.

12.2.1.3. IOs

Each controller must connect its clock SCL and data SDA to one pair of GPIOs. The I2C standard requires that drivers drive

a signal low, or when not driven the signal will be pulled high. This applies to SCL and SDA. The GPIO pads should be

configured for:

• pull-up enabled
• slew rate limited
• schmitt trigger enabled

NOTE

There should also be external pull-ups on the board as the internal pad pull-ups may not be strong enough to pull up

external circuits.

12.2.2. IP configuration

I2C configuration details (each instance is fully independent):

• 32-bit APB access
• Supports Standard mode, Fast mode or Fast mode plus (not High speed)
• Default slave address of 0x055
• Master or Slave mode
• Master by default (Slave mode disabled at reset)

12.2. I2C
984
