---
source_pdf: rp2350-datasheet-10.pdf
repository: llm_database
chapter: Chapter 11. PIO
section: 11.4.7. PULL
pages: 896-897
type: technical_spec
generated_at: 2026-03-01T12:20:14.494106+00:00
---

# 11.4.7. PULL

11.4.7. PULL

11.4.7.1. Encoding

| Bit | 15 | 14 | 13 | 12 | 11 | 10 | 9 | 8 | 7 | 6 | 5 | 4 | 3 | 2 | 1 | 0 |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| PULL | 1 | 0 | 0 |  | Del | ay/side | -set |  | 1 | IfE | Blk | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 |

11.4. Instruction Set
895

RP2350 Datasheet

11.4.7.2. Operation

Load a 32-bit word from the TX FIFO into the OSR.

• IfEmpty: If 1, do nothing unless the total output shift count has reached its threshold, SHIFTCTRL_PULL_THRESH (the

same as for autopull; see Section 11.5.4).
• Block: If 1, stall if TX FIFO is empty. If 0, pulling from an empty FIFO copies scratch X to OSR.

Some peripherals (UART, SPI, etc.) should halt when no data is available, and pick it up as it comes in; others (I2S)

should clock continuously, and it is better to output placeholder or repeated data than to stop clocking. This can be

achieved with the Block parameter.

A non-blocking PULL on an empty FIFO has the same effect as MOV OSR, X. The program can either preload scratch

register X with a suitable default, or execute a MOV X, OSR after each PULL NOBLOCK, so that the last valid FIFO word will be

recycled until new data is available.

PULL IFEMPTY is useful if an OUT with autopull would stall in an inappropriate location when the TX FIFO is empty. IfEmpty

permits some of the same program simplifications as autopull: for example, the elimination of an outer loop counter.

However, the stall occurs at a controlled point in the program.

NOTE

When autopull is enabled, any PULL instruction is a no-op when the OSR is full, so that the PULL instruction behaves as

a barrier. OUT NULL, 32 can be used to explicitly discard the OSR contents. See Section 11.5.4.2 for more detail.

11.4.7.3. Assembler syntax

```c
pull (ifempty)
pull (ifempty) block
pull (ifempty) noblock
```

where:

| ifempty | Equivalent to IfEmpty == 1 above. i.e. the default if this is not specified is IfEmpty == 0. |
| --- | --- |
| block | Equivalent to Block == 1 above. This is the default if neither block nor noblock is specified. |
| noblock | Equivalent to Block == 0 above. |
