---
source_pdf: rp2350-datasheet-3.pdf
repository: llm_database
chapter: Chapter 11. PIO
section: 11.5.1. Side-set
pages: 903-903
type: technical_spec
generated_at: 2026-03-01T02:30:35.833805+00:00
---

# 11.5.1. Side-set

RP2350 Datasheet

◦000: PINS

◦001: X (scratch register X) 5 LSBs are set to Data, all others cleared to 0.

◦010: Y (scratch register Y) 5 LSBs are set to Data, all others cleared to 0.

◦011: Reserved

◦100: PINDIRS

◦101: Reserved

◦110: Reserved

◦111: Reserved
• Data: 5-bit immediate value to drive to pins or register.

This can be used to assert control signals such as a clock or chip select, or to initialise loop counters. As Data is 5 bits in

size, scratch registers can be SET to values from 0-31, which is sufficient for a 32-iteration loop.

The mapping of SET and OUT onto pins is configured independently. They may be mapped to distinct locations, for

example if one pin is to be used as a clock signal, and another for data. They may also be overlapping ranges of pins: a

UART transmitter might use SET to assert start and stop bits, and OUT instructions to shift out FIFO data to the same pins.

11.4.12.3. Assembler syntax

set <destination>, <value>

where:

| <destination> | Is one of the destinations specified above. |
| --- | --- |
| <value> | The value (see Section 11.3.2) to set (valid range 0-31). |

11.5. Functional details

11.5.1. Side-set

Side-set is a feature that allows state machines to change the level or direction of up to 5 pins, concurrently with the

main execution of the instruction.

One example where this is necessary is a fast SPI interface: here a clock transition (toggling 1→0 or 0→1) must be

simultaneous with a data transition, where a new data bit is shifted from the OSR to a GPIO. In this case an OUT with a

side-set would achieve both of these at once.

This makes the timing of the interface more precise, reduces the overall program size (as a separate SET instruction is

not needed to toggle the clock pin), and also increases the maximum frequency the SPI can run at.

Side-set also makes GPIO mapping much more flexible, as its mapping is independent from SET. The example I2C code

allows SDA and SCL to be mapped to any two arbitrary pins, if clock stretching is disabled. Normally, SCL toggles to

synchronise data transfer, and SDA contains the data bits being shifted out. However, some particular I2C sequences

such as Start and Stop line conditions, need a fixed pattern to be driven on SDA as well as SCL. The mapping I2C uses to

achieve this is:

• Side-set → SCL

11.5. Functional details
902
